# Econ211_decisiontree_sj288

This decision tree visualization deals with the classification of the purchasing power index of different cities around the world in terms of their property price to income ratio. Purchasing Power Index (PPI) and Property Price to Income Ratio (PPIR) used in the dataset used for this visualization is used as a metric to determine the Quality of Life Index (QLI) of this list of cities. According to Numbeo, the data compiler, PPI and QLI are directly proportional to one another whereas QLI and PPIR are inversely proportional to one another. The property price to income ratio data of all the cites has been broken down into four classes: very high, high, low and very low based on its range. The purchasing power index shows purchasing power in buying goods and services in the given city for the average net salary in that city relative to the purchasing power of New York City.
About the economic meaning, this exercise intended to compare the relation between housing affordability and purchasing power to look for the possibility of comparing goods and services pricing between countries that have different currencies and economic conditions. There is a correlation between housing prices and a decrease in purchasing power like the relationship between inflation and any limited supply of goods (Nguyen 2020).  However, the impact of decreasing housing affordability is more severe as it signals a housing crisis and economic inequality as people who are most impacted by it are low-wage and blue-collar workers (Florida 2018).  Besides, this analysis could also lead to finding a better metric for the market analysis of a geographical location. So, the implications of this analysis could help with research on the financial and economic situation across national economies and hence could be useful for professionals of a financial market, investors, representatives of commercial companies, as well as for government bodies for planning and policy purposes.
